These placeholders are called format specifiers. Many other format specifiers
work with printf. If we have a floating-point number, we can use %f to print
out a floating-point number, decimal point and all. Other format specifiers are:
  %d - int(same as %i)
  %ld - long int (same as %li)
  %f - float
  %lf - double
  %c - char
  %s - string
  %x hexadecimal



Conditionals:
  A conditional is a statement that instructs the computer to execute a 
  certain block of code or alter certain data only if a specific condition
  has been met. The most common conditional is the If-Else statement, with
  conditional expressions and Switch-Case statements typically used as more
  shorthanded methods.

A WHILE  loop can be used to do the same thing as a FOR loop, however a FOR
loop is a more condensed way to perform a set number of repetitions since all
of the necessary information is in a one line statement.

We have some terminology to refer to functions:
  A function, call it f, that uses another function g, is said to call g.
  For example, f calls g to print the squares of ten numbers.

  A function's inputs are known as its arguments.

  A function g that gives some kind of answer back to f is said to return that
  answer.


If a function is to be called only from within the file in which it is declared,
it is appropriate to declare it as a static function. When a function is declared
static, the compiler will now compile to an object file in a way that prevents the
function from being called from code in other files.

It is usually  bad practice to define macros in headers. A macro should be defined
only when it is not possible to achieve the result with a function or some other
mechanism. Some compilers are able to optimize code to where calls to small functions
are replaced with inline code, negating any possible advantage. Using typedefs, enums,
and inline is often a better option.

The conditional expression could contain any C operator except for the assignment
operators, the increment and decrement operators, the address-of operator, and the
sizeof operator.